docs(agent): add commit message guidelines for GitHub Copilot (#21433)
juju/juju: .github/instructions/agent-commit-instructions.md

---
exclude-agent: "code-review"
---

> 

Author: This is a very good idea, I like it. I will add it as a specific file in the instruction set.

# Commit Instructions for GitHub Copilot Agent

This file provides instructions for the GitHub Copilot coding agent when making commits to this repository.

## Commit Message Format

All commits **must** follow the Conventional Commits standard:

```
<type>(<scope>): <short description>

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
<type>(<scope>): <short description>
```

The runes `<` and `>` above are indicative of a Component names only and SHALL NOT be represented in the commit message.
```

### Required Components

- **type**: The kind of change (required)
- **scope**: Single-word identifier for the affected subpackage/domain (optional but recommended)

> - **description**: Brief summary in lowercase, no ending punctuation (required)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Components

- **type**: The type of change (REQUIRED)
- **scope**: Simple identifier for the singular affected semantic scope (OPTIONAL)
- **short description**: Brief summary MUST be in lowercase, MUST NOT stutter and MUST NOT end with punctuation (REQUIRED)

Guidelines are provided for each Component.
```

## Commit Types

- **feat**: New feature
- **fix**: Bug fix
- **docs**: Documentation changes
- **refactor**: Code changes that neither fix bugs nor add features
- **test**: Adding or updating tests
- **chore**: Maintenance tasks
- **style**: Code style/formatting changes
- **perf**: Performance improvements
- **build**: Build system or dependency changes
- **ci**: CI configuration changes
- **revert**: Revert previous commit

## Scope Guidelines

> Use a **single word** identifying the primary affected subpackage or domain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **single word** identifying the singular affected semantic scope SHOULD be used. The semantic scope SHOULD be identified by the sub-package or domain that embodies it:
```

Common scopes: `api`, `apiserver`, `cli`, `storage`, `model`, `controller`, `agent`, `database`, `cmd`, `core`, `cloud`

> Omit scope only if no clear primary domain applies.

Reviewer: I'd just say that then:

`If the semantics of a change is not of a singular concern then the scope MUST be omitted.`

## Examples

```
feat(api): add user authentication endpoint
```

```
fix(storage): resolve race condition in volume attachment
```

```

> docs: update contributing guidelines

Reviewer: This is an example of a bad commit message as it is too broad.

I'd prefer we give examples that clarify the change with more detail.

```suggestion
docs: add CLA requirements to contributing guidelines
```
